.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Rodolphe Bréard <rodolphe@breard.tf>
.\"
.\" Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
.\" notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
.\" without any warranty.
.Dd Apr 16, 2023
.Dt FILTER-DKIMOUT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm filter-dkimout
.Nd DKIM filter for OpenSMTPD
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a|--algorithm Ar STRING
.Op Fl b|--key-data-base Ar FILE
.Op Fl c|--canonicalization Ar STRING
.Op Fl d|--domain Ar STRING
.Op Fl D|--domain-file Ar FILE
.Op Fl f|--revocation-list Ar FILE
.Op Fl h|--header Ar STRING
.Op Fl o|--header-optional Ar STRING
.Op Fl p|--cryptoperiod Ar UINT
.Op Fl r|--revocation Ar UINT
.Op Fl u|--dns-update-cmd Ar STRING
.Op Fl v|--verbose
.Op Fl V|--version
.Op Fl x|--expiration Ar UINT
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an OpenSMTPD filter for OpenSMTPD that signs outgoing emails using DKIM.
It provides automatic key generation and rotation.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl a, -algorithm Ar STRING
The signing algorithm. Possible values are:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
ed25519-sha256
.It
rsa2048-sha256
.Aq default
.It
rsa3072-sha256
.It
rsa4096-sha256
.El
.It Fl b, -key-data-base Ar FILE
Path to an SQLite 3 database where keys are stored.
Will be created if does not exists.
.It Fl c, -canonicalization Ar STRING
The canonicalization algorithm used to generate the signature.
Must be composed of two methods separated by a slash character.
The first method will be used for the headers and the second one for the body.
Available methods are:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
simple
.It
relaxed
.El
.Pp
Default is
.Qo
relaxed/relaxed
.Qc .
.It Fl d, -domain Ar STRING
A domain name for which it is possible to sign for.
Multiple
.Fl d
options are additive.
.It Fl D, -domain-file Ar FILE
Path to a file witch contains a domain name on each line.
.It Fl f, -revocation-list Ar FILE
Path to the revocation list file.
Will be created if does not exists.
This file is opened in append mode, which means previous content will not be deleted.
.It Fl h, -header Ar STRING
Header that will always be included in the signature, even if not present.
It is possible to specify multiple headers separated by a colon.
Multiple
.Fl h
options are additive.
Set to an empty string to deactivate.
.Pp
Default is
.Qo
from:reply-to:subject:date:to:cc
.Qc .
.It Fl o, -header-optional Ar STRING
Header that will be included in the signature only if present.
It is possible to specify multiple headers separated by a colon.
Multiple
.Fl o
options are additive.
Set to an empty string to deactivate.
.Pp
Default is
.Qo
resent-date:resent-from:resent-to:resent-cc:in-reply-to:references:list-id:list-help:list-unsubscribe:list-subscribe:list-post:list-owner:list-archive
.Qc .
.It Fl p, -cryptoperiod Ar UINT
The cryptoperiod, in seconds.
Default is 15552000
.Aq 180 days .
.It Fl r, -revocation Ar UINT
Number of seconds between the end of the cryptoperiod and the revocation.
Default is 1728000
.Aq 20 days .
.It Fl u, -dns-update-cmd Ar STRING
Command that will be executed to update DNS entries.
.It Fl v, -verbose
Verbose mode.
Multiple
.Fl v
options increase the verbosity.
The maximum is 2.
.It Fl V, -version
Display the version number and exit.
.It Fl x, -expiration Ar UINT
Signature expiration, in seconds.
Default is 1296000
.Aq 15 days .
Set to 0 to deactivate.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smtpd-filters 7
.Sh STANDARDS
.Bl -hyphen
.It
.Rs
.%A D. Crocker
.%D September 2011
.%R RFC 6376
.%T DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) Signatures
.Re
.It
.Rs
.%A J. Levine
.%D September 2018
.%R RFC 8463
.%T A New Cryptographic Signature Method for DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM)
.Re
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Rodolphe Bréard
.Aq rodolphe@breard.tf
